Routing in the Cloud is a very critical component of your infrastructure.
By using route tables,
you can regulate traffic to and from your network.
Let's take a look at some definitions.
A routing table is simply a set of entries or rules
associated with one or more of your subnets inside your VPC.
These rules allow or deny traffic to and from the address ranges that you specify.
Rules can be as open as the entire world,
or they can be as restrictive as to a single particular IP address.
Let's take a look at this diagram here.
This is a VPC that is connected to the on-premise network as well as the Internet.
The main components here are a public subnet and a private subnet.
Now the public subnet is associated with a custom routing table up here,
and the private subnet is associated with the main routing table down here.
What makes the private subnet private is the fact that it has a rule that
says all traffic is going to go to the virtual private gateway,
which is this component right here.
It will send traffic through
a VPN connection to the corporate network of this fictitious company.
Now, there's another rule in domain routing table that says, 10.0.0.0/16,
which is the address of our VPC,
and the target is local,
meaning that all servers within the Cloud can talk to one another without restrictions.
However, when the private subnet attempts to access anything to the outside world,
it can only do so through the corporate network.
It is not visible from the outside,
it can only be accessed to and from the corporate network.
Now in contrast, let's take a look at the upper one,
the public subnet, which is associated with a custom routing table.
It has the same target for local routes,
that is 10.0.0.0/16 will be routed to local,
meaning that there are no restrictions of
access to and from as long as it's within the same VPC.
However, any other address that are not within this VPC will be router to the IGW,
in this case, the Internet gateway.
So any machines that you put inside
this public subnet will be visible to the outside world and will have Internet access,
thanks to the Internet gateway.